Document Alacritty's UI features (#4019)
alacritty/alacritty: docs/features.md

# Features

This document gives an overview over Alacritty's features beyond its terminal
emulation capabilities. To get a list with supported control sequences take a
look at [Alacritty's escape sequence support](./escape_support.md).

## Vi Mode

The vi mode allows moving around Alacritty's viewport and scrollback using the
keyboard. It also serves as a jump-off point for other features like search and
opening URLs with the keyboard. By default you can launch it using

> <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> <kbd>Shift</kbd> <kbd>Space</kbd>.

Reviewer: There's a way to add a `plus` sign in between for it to look more homogeneous.

Author: I'm not sure what I like more tbh. I feel like without the plus formats a little nicer, the `+` looks a little out of place:

<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd>
<kbd>Ctrl</kbd> <kbd>c</kbd>

Reviewer: I do like it in a way `Ctrl + c` tbqh, but it uses a bit different formatting, than `kbd`.

Author: I personally prefer <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> <kbd>c</kbd> out of all of them. It doesn't have an out of place looking connecting character, is still clear and makes it obvious that this is about a keybinding.

### Motion

The cursor motions are setup by default to mimic vi, however they are fully
configurable. If you don't like vi's bindings, take a look at the [configuration
file] to change the various movements.

### Selection

> One useful feature of vi mode is the ability to make selections and copy text to

Reviewer: You have one selection.

```suggestion
One useful feature of vi mode is the ability to select and copy text to
```

Author: You can perform it multiple times though. So making selections is still correct? I can change it though to make it more clear that the only purpose of selections is to copy text?

the clipboard. By default you can start a selection using <kbd>v</kbd> and copy
it using <kbd>y</kbd>. All selection modes that are available with the mouse can
be accessed from vi mode, including the semantic (<kbd>Alt</kbd> <kbd>v</kbd>),

> line (<kbd>Shift</kbd> <kbd>v</kbd>) and block selection (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>

Reviewer: Same thing with `plus` sign.

<kbd>v</kbd>). You can also toggle between them while the selection is still
active.

### Opening URLs

While in vi mode you can open URLs using the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key. If some text
is recognized as a URL, it will be underlined once you move the vi cursor above
it. The program used to open these URLs can be changed in the [configuration
file].

## Search

Search allows you to find anything in Alacritty's scrollback buffer, it can be
launched either directly (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd> <kbd>Shift</kbd> <kbd>f</kbd>), or
from vi mode (<kbd>/</kbd>).

### Vi Search

When using search while the vi mode is active, it can be used to quickly move
around the scrollback buffer. The bindings <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> <kbd>n</kbd> and

> <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> <kbd>Shift</kbd> <kbd>n</kbd> allow you to navigate within

Reviewer: Those are just `n` and `shift + n`, no ctrl is involved here. Also, `plus`.

Author: That is incorrect, I'm explicitly talking about motions **within** the search here.

Reviewer: I mean we don't have `Ctrl + Shift + N` or `Ctrl + n` in a alacritty.yml or implicitly in terminal, I'm not sure what is incorrect here.

Author: Oh right, these aren't bound to anything by default. I completely forgot about that.

Do you think it would make sense to bind these by default? Do you have them bound to something?

Reviewer: >Do you think it would make sense to bind these by default? Do you have them bound to something?

I don't think that we should.

Reviewer: This is still not addressed. Just removing the sentence about `ctrl + shift + n` should solve it.

Author: Should we then document that these bindings can be used to jump within matches? I think it's an important detail of vi search.

Reviewer: >Should we then document that these bindings can be used to jump within matches? I think it's an important detail of vi search.

You mean `Actions`? we don't have the bindings you're talking about.

Author: No, I mean that people can create these bindings to jump around within matches.

Reviewer: people can create whatever bindings they want. They could bind certain actions to have an ability to move within the search, however actions that we have to navigate around, are not bound to a 'current' match, they just traverse the matches in a defined order. So I do feel like there's no value in that sentence at all.

Author: How is there no value in documenting that a binding exists that is not bound by default which would likely be very useful to a lot of people?

Reviewer: Well, we have other bindings not bound by default, which also has a value to begin with.

>How is there no value in documenting that an action exists that is not bound by default which would likely be very useful to a lot of people

You can say that there're other ways to move Vi cursor other than default `n` and `N` ans just list the actions folks can use, describing what they should do. However if you want to describe a key binding that may be of use maybe use config's key binding section? For me features file is more like, 'things you can try right away without touching config at all'.

Author: Using the configuration file's key binding section would likely make this harder to discover though.

Author: I've reworded things a little bit, let me know what you think.

matches, which make them useful tools for selecting your matches.

### Normal Search

During normal search you don't have the opportunity to move around freely, but
you can still jump between matches using <kbd>Enter</kbd> and <kbd>Shift</kbd>
<kbd>Enter</kbd>. After leaving search with <kbd>Escape</kbd> your active match

> stays selected, allowing you to easily copy it.

Reviewer: it's not true that it stays selected(it'll be cleared in alt-screen). But I guess the current wording is fine.

Author: That's not correct. The selection stays active both in the primary and alternative screen buffer.

Now if your content is resized and that clears the content below it, that's a completely different thing.

the clipboard. By default you can start a selection using <kbd>v</kbd> and copy
it using <kbd>y</kbd>. All selection modes that are available with the mouse can
be accessed from vi mode, including the semantic (<kbd>Alt</kbd> <kbd>v</kbd>),
line (<kbd>Shift</kbd> <kbd>v</kbd>) and block selection (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>
<kbd>v</kbd>). You can also toggle between them while the selection is still
active.

### Opening URLs

While in vi mode you can open URLs using the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key. If some text
is recognized as a URL, it will be underlined once you move the vi cursor above
it. The program used to open these URLs can be changed in the [configuration
file].

## Search

Search allows you to find anything in Alacritty's scrollback buffer. You can
search forward using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> <kbd>Shift</kbd> <kbd>f</kbd> and
backward using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> <kbd>Shift</kbd> <kbd>b</kbd>.

### Vi Search

In vi mode the search is bound to <kbd>/</kbd> for forward and <kbd>?</kbd> for
backward search. This allows you to move around quickly and help with selecting
content. The `SearchStart` and `SearchEnd` keybinding actions can be bound if

> you're looking for a way to jump to either end of a match.

Reviewer: The sentence is unfinished. 

```suggestion
you're looking for a way to jump to either start of the match or end.
```

Author: It is finished, you can jump to either end of the search match with these bindings.
